# Predicting-value-and-best-position-s-for-a-FIFA-player
Predicting value and best position(s) for a FIFA player- Using Feature Engineering, PCA, SVR, Multinomial Logistic regression

» In this project, we aim to predict the value (in euros) of a player and his role (or position) in the team. This project will help team managers take informed decisions regarding the selection of players and bidding during transfer season. » The project was planned and executed by following the CRISP-DM (Cross-industry standard process for data mining) model. CRISP-DM breaks the process of data mining into six major phases. The model is a cyclic process which allows for back and forth iteration between the six phases. The phases are: business understanding, data understanding, modelling, evaluation and deployment. » We had 185 attributes in our dataset, for feature selection we used our domain knowledge, visual analysis, variance test, bi-directional elimination methods, and predictor screening algorithms to get the best set of features for fulfilling our two objectives. We also derived few columns to further reduce number of features.
» To further reduce dimensionality we used, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) which is a popular statistics technique used primarily in the field of data mining for dimensionality reduction. It uses an orthogonal transformation to reduce a set of possibly correlated variables in a multivariate dataset into a set of linearly combination of the original variables, referred to as Principal Components. After cleaning and transformation of our data and reducing the dimensions of the data with PCA, we created a support vector regressor with a polynomial kernel as our data was non-linear. We used RMSE, R-Square and sMAPE to calculate the prediction accuracy for our first objective.
» For second objective, we used multinomial logistic regression which calculated probabilities of a player for every position. From the probabilities of all the positions, it assigned the label having the highest probability. We used confusion matrix, AUC to estimate the performance of our model.
» We further derived some insights from our result, where we can further classify players into more positions, i.e. players who can play well at multiple positions (Attacking and Midfield positions, Midfield and Defending positions) using probability scores calculated by logistic classifier.
